h1. IMPORTANT NOTE

The mainline of this repository represents the next major release of Sprouts which involves a nearly complete rewrite.

To see, or edit the source code for the currently-released code, please check out the "0.7.241-release branch":http://github.com/lukebayes/project-sprouts/tree/0.7.241-release.

h1. Project Sprouts

Project Sprouts is an open-source, cross-platform project generation and configuration tool for ActionScript 2, ActionScript 3, and Flex projects.

Project Sprouts provides everything you need to get up and running with SWF development instantly. The only prerequisites are Ruby and RubyGems.

Sprouts includes support for project and code templates, automated build scripts, remote managed libraries, and automatic installation of dependencies like the Flash VM and a variety of compilers and tools.

Sprouts works on OS X, Windows XP, Windows Vista and many flavors of *nix (including Solaris thanks to lots of patience from Armaghan Chaudhary).

h3. Installation

# "Install Ruby":http://www.ruby-lang.org/en/downloads/ _(>= v 1.8.7)_
# "Install RubyGems":http://rubyforge.org/frs/?group_id=126 _(>= v 1.3.6)_
# Install the Sprout gem:

<pre><code>gem install sprout</code></pre>
_(If prompted, select the appropriate gem for your platform.)_

h3. Getting Started

Open a terminal and enter the following commands:

Create a new ActionScript 3 project and move into it:

<pre><code>sprout -n as3 SomeProject
cd SomeProject</code></pre>

Resolve all dependencies, compile and launch the SWF:

<pre><code>rake</code></pre>

Generate a new class, test case and test suite:

<pre><code>script/generate utils.MathUtil</code></pre>

Compile and launch the test harness:

<pre><code>rake test</code></pre>

Compile a SWC file:

<pre><code>rake swc</code></pre>

Generate documentation using "AsDoc":http://labs.adobe.com/wiki/index.php/ASDoc:

<pre><code>rake doc</code></pre>

Execute the test harness, emit a JUnit-compatible test results document, and close the Flash Player when complete or after encountering an uncaught exception:

<pre><code>rake cruise</code></pre>

Display all available Rake tasks:

<pre><code>rake -T</code></pre>

h3. Some Simple, Sample Rake Tasks

Sprouts brings the power of the "Rake":http://martinfowler.com/articles/rake.html build language to SWF development. Rake is similar to Make and Ant, but harnesses the full power and flexibility of Ruby to help us describe the structure and automate the behavior of any build, from the simplest to the most complex.

Following are some simple examples of the Rake tasks that Sprouts provides:

_"The Default Rakefile - Expanded":http://gist.github.com/221569_

_"An example of the erb_resolver Rake task":http://gist.github.com/306334_

_ActionScript 3 and MXML Projects:_

<pre><code>mxmlc :debug do |t|
  t.input = 'src/SomeProject.as'
  t.output = 'bin/SomeProject.swf'
end

compc :deploy do |t|
  t.input = 'src/SomeProject.as'
  t.output = 'bin/SomeProject.swc'
end

asdoc :doc do |t|
  t.doc_classes = 'SomeProject'
  t.source_path = 'src'
end

flashplayer :run do |t|
  t.swf = 'bin/SomeProject.swf'
end
</code></pre>

_ActionScript 2 Projects:_

<pre><code>swfmill :skin do |t|
  t.input = 'assets/skins/SomeProjectSkin'
  t.output = 'assets/skins/SomeProjectSkin.swf'
end

mtasc :debug => :skin do |t|
  t.main = true
  t.header = '800:600:24'
  t.input = 'src/SomeProject.as'
  t.output = 'bin/SomeProject.swf'
end

flashplayer :run do |t|
  t.swf = 'bin/SomeProject.swf'
end
</code></pre>

h3. Some Links

* "Web Site":http://projectsprouts.org
* "Source Metrics":http://getcaliper.com/caliper/project?repo=git://github.com/lukebayes/project-sprouts.git
* "File a Bug":http://github.com/lukebayes/project-sprouts/issues
* "See the Documentation":http://projectsprouts.org/rdoc
* "Meet the Community":http://groups.google.com/group/projectsprouts

h3. MIT License

<pre>
Copyright (c) 2007, 2008, 2009 Pattern Park

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
"Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND
NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE
LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION
OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION
WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
</pre>
