---
layout: default
title: Installation
---

<div class="center">  
  <div class="content header-shadow">

h1. Troubleshooting

As badly as we want this process to be seamless and simple for everyone, there always seem to be bits of complexity that cause problems. We consider this a failure of Sprouts and would like to see improvements made so that manual debugging of Sprouts installations becomes a thing of the past. If you have an issue, please let us know and feel free to fork the source and submit a fix!

Following are some of the more common issues that have come up in the past.

h3. 

  </div>
</div>

<div class="center even-section">
  <div class="content header-shadow">

h2. Windows

h3. Ruby Version >= 1.9.2?

It is especially critical that Windows users be running a Ruby that is greater than or equal to version 1.9.2. The previous versions of Ruby had critical bugs that prevented this version of Sprouts from working.

We highly recommend Windows users get going with the <a href="http://rubyinstaller.org/">Ruby Installer</a>. You should know that this installer includes a version of Mingw

I haven't tried it myself, but it might be worth checking out <a target="_blank" href="https://github.com/vertiginous/pik">Pic</a> (Ruby Version Manager for Windows).

h3. Missing MSVCR71.dll

As far as I can tell, this issue appears to have something to do with Java and Microsoft trying to piss on each other, and since Adobe (in a supremely questionable decision) decided to used Java to build their compilers, we get to suffer the consequences.

I was able to find a copy of this dll on a (reasonably) fresh installation of Windows server 2008 here:

  <pre>C:\Users\Administrator\AppData\LocalLow\Sun\Java\Deployment\SystemCache\6.0\46</pre>

I manually copied this file to:

  <pre>C:\Users\Administrator\Sprouts\1.1\cache\flex4\4.1.0.16076\bin</pre>

Whenever I get a new Flex SDK, I have to copy this file into the newly unpacked bin folder.

If you have other information about this issue, please let us know.

  </div>
</div>

<div class="center">
  <div class="content header-shadow">
      
h2. OS X

h3. Using Ruby Version Manager (RVM)?

<a target="_blank" href="http://rvm.beginrescueend.com/">Ruby Version Manager</a> is a tool that makes it very easy to switch between different versions of Ruby. It also gets your system into a state where you don't use <code>sudo</code> to install RubyGems.

h3. Are XCode / Developer tools installed?

Be sure you have installed the OS X "Developer Tools" which should have been included with your operating system DVD.

  </div>
</div>

<div class="center even-section">
  <div class="content header-shadow">

h2. Linux

h3. Debian system (like Ubuntu) don't like RubyGems in the path

You will <a target="_blank" href="http://docs.rubygems.org/read/chapter/3">likely need to update your system path</a> to accomodate installed RubyGems.

  </div>
</div>

